
---
title: Riemann's mapping theorem
taxon: theorem
---

$\gdef\CC{\mathbb{C}}$

[holomorphic]: ./rmsf-1200.md

Let $U \in \CC$ be an [open subset](./rmsf-1100.md) which is simply-connected and not equal to $\CC$. Then there exists a biholomorphism between $U$ and the unit disk $D = D(0,1)$. 

We will explain the term "simply-connected" later. 

There is something of a physical "proof" of this theorem, which also give some intuition for the notion of a biholomorphism. The idea is this: we can decorate the unit disk by imagining the radial lines joining the center $0$ to the boundary, and also imagining all the circles of radius $< 1$ centered at $0$. We want to find the corresponding decorations of $U$; then the biholomorphism will be constructed to match these up. 

For this, we start by fixing a point $p \in U$ which will correspond to $0 \in D$. Then we place an electric charge at $p$, and consider the magnetic field it generates. But we do this subject to the boundary condition that the potential should be zero on the boundary of $U$. Then we can decorate $U$ by the field lines on the one hand, and by the equipotential lines on the other. These will correspond to the radial lines and the circles in $D$. 

The reason this all works, heuristically, is that field lines are always perpendicular to equipotential lines. That is why the resulting map $U \lrarr D$ will be biholomorphism: right angles are preserved. 

That was of course a non-rigorous argument, but one can make it rigorous. At the very least, there is a moral to the story: since nature decides what to do by solving real differential equations, we should try to construct [holomorphic functions][holomorphic] using solution to (certain) real differential equations as well. 
