
---
title: Why do [holomorphic functions](./rmsf-1200.md) exist?
taxon: exegesis
---

[holomorphic]: ./rmsf-1200.md

$\gdef\CC{\mathbb{C}}$

Now we have reviewed the basis of [holomorphic][holomorphic] functions. But there's one important question we should still discuss: where do [holomorphic functions][holomorphic] come from? Why do they exist?

The answer is that they come from a variety of sources. We'll talk about two of the more important ones in the next lecture: they come from solution of polynomial (or more generally [holomorphic][holomorphic]) equations, and also from solutions of holomorphic differential equations. 

But for now we'll give a different kind of answer, First of all, the identity function $z: \CC \to \CC$ is [holomorphic][holomorphic], as is any constant function. Second, the class of [holomorphic functions][holomorphic] is closed under addition and multiplication. Thus, every polynomial is [holomorphic][holomorphic]. (The proof of these claims is formally just like the real variable case.) Then, we can access more [holomorphic functions][holomorphic] by talking limits of polynomials, thanks to the following theorem (also a consequence of [Cauchy formula](./rmsf-1400.md)!): 

[+](./rmsf-1405.md#:embed)

So other examples of holomorphic functions come as uniform limits of polynomial functions. In fact, essentially all examples are of this form, since a power series is uniform limit of its Taylor truncation. 

Yet, there are many other ways to construct [holomorphic functions][holomorphic] than via the above path. One is particularly vivid; it involves going back to the geometric understanding of holomorphic functions, and making it precise will be one of the goals of this course. Before stating a version of it, however, we should define the following important term:

[+](./rmsf-1406.md#:embed)

> (This last condition in fact follows from the others, but we'll talk about that later.)

Now we can state Riemann's mapping theorem, which produces many interesting biholomorphisms: 

[+](./rmsf-1407.md#:embed)

